   
Contato
+351 933782578 (Mobile)
andrelucastic@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/andre-lucastic
(LinkedIn)
programmingonmars.io/ (Blog)
Principais competências
Anthropic Claude
Cloud Computing
Oracle
Certifications
Docker: Criando containers sem dor
de cabeça
Java and Domain Driven Design:
introducing the concepts
Vue3: exploring the framework
Grokking System Design
Fundamentals
Uncomplicating Kubernetes
André Lucas
Software Engineer at Innotech
Portugal
Resumo
Hello, I'm a skilled Software Engineer with over 8 years of
experience developing systems in large, highly critical environments.
I have achieved remarkable milestones throughout my career and
consistently delivered high-quality solutions. I take pride in navigating
complex technical challenges and delivering innovative software
solutions that exceed expectations.
Additionally, I have established a strong online presence through
a website where I share my insights on software development.
I provide valuable perspectives on best practices for system
development and document my experiences in a personal learning
journal. This platform allows me to contribute to the software
development community and continually grow as a professional.
As a Software Engineer, I am passionate about leveraging my skills
and knowledge to drive impactful technological advancements.
I thrive in dynamic and collaborative environments, where I can
contribute my expertise to create cutting-edge solutions.
If you're seeking a dedicated and experienced Software Engineer
who can excel in critical environments and bring valuable insights
to the table, I would be thrilled to connect and explore potential
opportunities together. Feel free to reach out to me, and let's discuss
how we can drive innovation together.
Experiência
InnoTech.pt
Software Engineer
outubro de 2024 - Present (1 ano)
Programando em Marte
  Page 1 of 4   
Founder
maio de 2023 - Present (2 anos 5 meses)
My mission is to make programming accessible to everyone, helping readers,
achieve their programming goals and discover the transformative potential of
coding.
https://programmingonmars.io/
Power IT Consulting
Software Engineer
abril de 2022 - outubro de 2024 (2 anos 7 meses)
Lisbon, Portugal
In some clients, my role is not only to develop code but also to contribute and
motivate my team with
new technologies creating a culture to apply good practices of engineering,
like, clean code, design
patterns, and separating responsibilities of domains from the applications.
There was a lot of difficulty and problems in delivering applications in a
production environment
because they were using SVN, so I showed other options like GitLab, then we
chose to use GitLab,
and I was responsible for implementing it. This makes it more comfortable to
deliver new features in the
production environment. Also, it became better to hire new developers.
Also, I am responsible for automatizing developers' tools to facilitate their work
with it easier to create
new features and integrate web services.
Also, I was responsible for creating a solution where there was a problem with
a client sending emails
to its customers and some customers did receive emails after candidature
applications. So after I had
created the solution 99% of the emails are sent now.
iFood
Software Engineer
abril de 2019 - abril de 2022 (3 anos 1 mês)
Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil
Planning, architecting and developing microservices having got a strong
culture with TDD and a multifunctional team, we create a solution that
processes several of data a day
  Page 2 of 4   
I worked on different products focusing on the logistics. Since migrations from
monolithic to microservices architecture allowed the company to receive 1
million routes a day, until creating possibilities to create a lot of promotion for
these routes, to supply balance between the orders and drivers saving money
for the company and creating incentives for drivers.
I was responsible for being a host in some meetings, like daily, technical
discussions, system design meetings, planning, and refinements.
Also, I've participated in many processes of onboarding to welcome new
colleagues with technical presentations about some context of systems and
main flows.
Finally me too I used to do mentoring and 1on1 sessions, which I love.
FITec
Software Development Specialist
janeiro de 2018 - abril de 2019 (1 ano 4 meses)
Recife e Região, Brasil
I was in charge of the infrastructure and coding part, I use microservice
architecture, for example, I've built a service that gets a high amount of data
coming from several devices and organizes them in a database to create
reports in order to analyze them and get insights.
Used technologies:  
SpringCloud, Mapd(OmniSci), Apache Weka(ML), ElasticSearch, Google
Platform, Google Pub/Sub, Docker Swarm, VueJS.
Consenso Tecnologia
Software Engineer
agosto de 2017 - janeiro de 2018 (6 meses)
Recife e Região, Brasil
I had the task of developing new features, correcting and testing existing
features.
I developed technologies so that companies could manage basic sanitation
more efficiently. Ensuring the monitoring of losses and improving the process.
In this company I've worked with struts 1, Spring MVC, banco de dados Oracle
e PostgreSQL, Git Version, Ant Build.
Pitang
  Page 3 of 4   
Software Developer
agosto de 2015 - agosto de 2017 (2 anos 1 mês)
Some of my activities were to analyze systems, to develop new features,  to
fix and test existing functionalities for the EFISCO - Pernambuco's Treasury
Department System relating to taxes.
Unisys Brasil
Programmer
maio de 2014 - julho de 2015 (1 ano 3 meses)
Recife e Região, Brasil
Formação acadêmica
Full Cycle
Master of Business Administration - MBA, Software Architecture · (novembro
de 2023 - julho de 2025)
Faculdade Maurício de Nassau
Bachelor of Information System, Information Technology · (2012 - 2016)
  Page 4 of 4